SUBTITLE GENERATED BY SUBTEKS.ME
TURKISH TO ENGLISH
Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-
SHEEP DETECTIVES
Dear Rebecca.
I know there are many problems.
I have them too. After all.
life is a mystery.
But if there is one answer to all the
great riddles in the universe.
...and a secret to happiness.
I think this must be it.
Sheep!
No. seriously!
Truly. a sheep.
Okay. I'm coming!
Translated to Turkish and synchronized by;
ufukbaba
In your last letter. you asked me if any
of my sheep were special.
Fortunately. they all are. That is why
I gave each one a name.
For example. there are the bully
twin rams I named Ronnie and Reggie.
There is Sir Richfield. who is very
proud and dignified.
Cloud. the fluffiest one.
He's a bit of a diva.
Zora. the most curious.
Mopple. the most patient.
And Wool Eyes.
Because I couldn't think of a
better name.
Okay. I know I said they were all special.
but I must admit that two of my sheep
are the most special of all.
Here is Sebastian. my biggest ram.
Like me. a bit of a loner.
Sooner or later. he wanders off.
Sooner or later. he wanders off out of curiosity
and returns.
And finally. Lily. my smartest sheep.
A sheep who always knows what I'm thinking.
...and what I'm feeling.
Above all. she brings me the kind of peace
that only shepherds know.
A peace that comes from taking care of
the gentlest creatures in the world.
Every day starts by looking after
their health.
I feed them well. keep them well-groomed.
I do my best to entertain them.
And I ensure they take the medicine
that I think they enjoy.
...if only they could talk.
Time for medicine. my friend.
Here you go.
And when I'm finished with my work and the
sun begins to lower in the sky.
I choose books to read aloud to them.
Detective novels. mysteries.
thrillers. all my favorites.
I know when Rodney Hollingshead
was murdered.
and I also know who the real killer is!
I like to pretend they're following the story.
but...
I know that no matter how special they are.
they are still sheep.
No. not anymore.
Go on. most of you.
I'll read the ending tomorrow.
Oh! Why stop there?
He was just about to say who the killer was!
This is torture!
He's our friend. isn't he?
Of course he is.
No. no. no. It was Carter.
He kept mowing the grass.
I could never eat it.
- Yes. the situation is suspicious.
Are you crazy? The doctor did it!
- No way! Aunt Creepy did it.
- Aunt Creepy?
Three stories from the goats. genius!
How are we even related?
- Here we go.
- Right!
- You're wrong.
I solved it two chapters ago.
The maid. right?
Not the maid. The nephew.
Bertie Hollingshead.
But Lily. didn't the detective prove that all
the evidence against Bertie Hollingshead
was fabricated by the real killer?
Absolutely! Don't you see?
He made up the evidence himself to avoid
conviction!
The real killer was Bertie Hollingshead!
George will finish the story tomorrow.
You'll see.
I still think it's the maid.
Bertie knew everything about the law.
He said a person cannot be tried twice
for the same crime.
And so he made up the evidence himself
to escape conviction!
The real killer was Bertie Hollingshead!
Most of my sheep seem to spend their days
either eating.
...or thinking about eating.
But I have three stray lambs with
limitless energy.
Happy. carefree little creatures born in spring.
Actually. almost all lambs are born in spring.
And I also have one lamb born in winter.
Hello.
-I'm Daisy. - I'm Oliver.
- I'm Tickle.
-What's your name?
-I don't have a name.
Do you want to play with us?
No. damn it!
You are not to play with that winter lamb.
He does not belong to this flock.
However. for reasons that make sense
to a sheep.
the flock often rejects the lamb born in winter.
simply because the winter lamb is different.
I have a question. Why is George always so
kind to that lamb?
George is not a sheep.
No one taught him about winter lambs.
Translated to Turkish. synchronized. and corrected by;
ufukbaba
Oh. one last thing. If you accept my invitation.
you should know that I live near a town
called Denbrook.
It has its own peculiar types.
For example...
- Good morning. Caleb.
- Caleb is also a shepherd.
-Good morning. ladies.
- I don't like him.
Ham. the butcher.
I really don't like him.
Beth. the innkeeper.
She doesn't like me.
Oh. I could kill that man!
Tim. the policeman. An idiot.
And Reverend Hillcoat. who thinks he's
the shepherd of men.
We have a complicated relationship.
And now. for today's reading:
The Story of the Lost Sheep.
George. come join us.
Everyone is welcome in the Lord's house.
Even butchers. right?
I'm not here to join you.
I'm here to settle the matter.
Good old George.
Enough about the people I've written about.
I want you to meet my flock.
They can't wait to see you!
And neither can I.
Please come soon.
Love. George.
Cloud. I have a question.
Do dandelions make my eyelashes
as beautiful as yours?
No. they don't do anything for eyelashes.
But they work wonders for wool.
Look at Wool Eyes.
He eats nothing but dandelions.
Oh. so that's what those are.
Okay.
We should save some of the dandelions
for Sebastian.
- He hasn't been around for days.
- Who cares?
Ever since George brought him here
from who knows where.
...he keeps wandering off toward town.
Let him go hungry.
Just because he doesn't care about us
doesn't mean we should
not care about him.
Sebastian is part of our flock.
Oh. oh! Look. it's Caleb!
- I always like the smell of that man.
- The woman's sweater.
Mmm. it smells horribly good.
Can I come in?
I'm coming in!
Very new. beautiful. and shiny.
Are you thinking what I'm thinking?
- I want to bury my head in it!
- I want to so much!
Reggie? Ronnie?
We talked about this.
We don't break things...
...unless there's a valid reason!
There it is.
This is Caleb's third visit this month.
There's only one thing they could be
talking about.
Merging the flocks.
- He's merging the flocks!
- New sheep! - New fields!
I'm thinking about it.
I gave you a chance. but you lied to me.
Caleb!
Don't you ever come back!
Oops! I guess we're not merging the flocks.
I felt so happy. and now I feel sad
and angry.
- I want to forget what happened!
- You're right. It's disappointing.
Alright everyone. on the count of three.
we will choose to forget
-...Caleb's entire visit. One. two...
- But what about Mopple?
He can't forget things.
- Why? - Poor Mopple.
He was born with a terrible condition.
Unlike the rest of us. he cannot
choose to forget things.
Oh yes. Mopple. once we've
forgotten.
...please don't remind us that it happened.
Are you sure?
It really wasn't that bad...
No. but it wasn't that good either.
So why are you upset?
Ready? One. Two. Three.
Cloud! I have a question.
Do dandelions make my eyelashes
as beautiful as yours?
No. they don't do anything for eyelashes.
But they work wonders for wool.
I'm fine.
I'll be fine. I promise.
It's just... I don't know.
Well... I was hoping that everything
would be different soon.
You don't need to worry.
You will be fine.
I will be fine too.
DENBROOK CULTURAL FESTIVAL
-Hi!
- Hello!
- Anything exciting?
- Not really for a Monday.
Just bills and advertisements.
George. who is he sending letters to?
I shouldn't say anything.
But Ms. Rebecca Hampstead from America.
Whoever she is. they've been
exchanging letters for months.
And... Go on. take a sniff.
Rose-scented paper.
Love letters!
Can you believe it?
Grumpy pants. George Hardy.
A stale. old romantic!
Who would have thought?
- Stale George.
- Yes.
- Watch out.
- Yes. you too.
-Hello.
- Hello.
I just arrived from the city for the
Denbrook Cultural Festival.
Great! This is it.
Follow me.
What is this?
Welcome to the Denbrook
Cultural Festival!
Original Art by Beth Pennock
-You're kidding.
- What? This is our town's heritage.
What?
What is Return to Oz?
Yes. it's the best movie
ever made.
And they filmed it only 40
miles down the road.
Oh. I see.
Well. enjoy the festival!
Most people agree that it's
better than the original.
- I've never watched it.
- Who hasn't seen Return to Oz?
Okay. I apologize. Why did you
put up a huge banner for this?
I want people to come. It's hard
to find a festival with no people.
No. this is not a festival.
No. There are just a few tables.
Are you telling me how to
run my business?
No. You're right. I'm sorry.
We got off to a bad start.
My name is Elliot Matthews.
I'm a reporter for The Gazette.
A cub reporter.
Okay. okay. I write for the
industry page...
But I've been looking for a real
story for a long time and...
My features editor gave me this.
The Denbrook Cultural Festival.
So? It sounds dreamy...
-That's quite nice. -I won't get
a promotion for this. will I?
-No.
- Too bad.
-10 upfront. - For what?
- Admission fee.
-Admission fee. - Oh.
Take it all.
Weird.
WELCOME TO DENBROOK
Where is George?
Where is our bedtime story?
He should have been here by now.
Oh!
It didn't look like anything
to be afraid of.
- Sir Ridgefield?
- Yes. it is time. you little lambs.
Because that's how these things go.
All those clouds were once
sheep like you and me.
...and when they saw the ground was
too dry. they started to dance.
To make the grass and clover grow.
they would spray rain.
...and there would be loud booms
as they shot it from the sky.
- Did all the sheep become clouds?
- Yes. Pickle. All of us.
One day. I too will become a cloud.
just as my parents did before me.
Although. for some reason.
I can't seem to remember what it was like
when my parents turned into clouds.
Moople. you remember everything.
That day must have been
wonderful. right?
Yes. of course. They said goodbye and
flew joyfully toward the sky.
They became two beautiful fluffy clouds
looking down on us from above.
With love... Forever!
Thank you.
And here it is!
Just as it should be.
Yes.
Everything is just as it should be.
The good news is. you chose the
perfect time to come here.
The Denbrook Cultural Festival!
You're lucky. Finn!
I went with my sister
last weekend...
Oh. it was so lovely...
It was better than anything else....
Did you see that?
See what?
Yes! You're awake!
I've told you time and again
not to do that.
We forgot!
We forgot.
Of course you forgot.
-Wait for me!
- Slow down!
-Lily. wha...
-I think this is a game. Don't move!
-The first one to move loses.
He's not playing a game.
Then what is he doing?
He's dead.
George is dead..
What? What do you mean he's dead?
This isn't real.
Is it real?
When people die.
...do they turn into a cloud?
No. Only sheep do that.
- Is he dead?!
- Is he dead? Is this real?
- It looks like it.
- Does this mean sheep can die?
No. Pickle. We turn into clouds.
George can't be dead.
I want my medicine!
- I'm broken.
- What does that mean? - It means I'm broken.
I don't think anyone understands
what I'm saying.
George is gone.
He's never coming back.
But George was a shepherd.
What are we going to do?
Yes. you're the smartest sheep
in the world. Lily. Tell us what to do.
There's only one thing we can do.
We must forget George.
What? But Lily. it's George.
Just like that...
It hurts too much to remember him.
I can't do it.
She's right.
Sheep aren't supposed to
feel things like this.
We must choose to forget.
- On the count of three.
- But wait... Don't...
- One...
- No. no. please don't! It's George!
- Two...
- You will not forget anything.
Sebastián.
Did you really think I would let you
forget my shepherd so easily?
He was our shepherd. Sebastian.
We all loved him.
It's too painful to bear.
And we will forget!
No. you won't. You will remember
because it's the right thing to do.
- Because it's fair. - Just what?
- No. no...
I mean justice.
-Just what are we?
Justice. Justice!
It means that goodness should not
be harmed by evil.
The strong should not
harm the weak.
And a friend should never be forgotten!
George once showed me
what justice was.
- He deserves this in return.
- That's true.
George was always very kind to me.
- To all of you.
That's why he only raised you
for your wool.
Why else would he raise sheep?
There's no other reason.
just wool..
Ah. I have a question! If everything
is going to end in the blink of an eye one day.
what is the point of human life?
Actually. why are humans here?
And who made all this?
Who created us?
And what's inside a tree?
And where does the moon
go during the day?
And why was George killed?
Killed? What do you mean killed?
In bedtime stories.
the dead are always killed.
No. no. Zora. Those are all fiction. This is real.
Isn't that right. Lily?
- Yes. absolutely. There's no reason
...to think that George... Ah. his hat!
I stopped by to have him sign the papers.
And I found him like this.
Would you like to say a few words?
- No.
Caleb?
What is the butcher doing here?
Five. Six.
He wants the sheep.
Fifteen.
Sixteen.
Lily. what are you doing?
I can't stop thinking about
George's hat and raincoat..
Which hat and raincoat?
Exactly. He appeared in the storm.
Why didn't he wear them?
A flag.
Give support.
What?
I was saying I wish I could forget this.
Do you see anything?
I see everything.
-Excuse me. what are you still doing
in town? -The car has problems. Who is this?
His name is George Hardy. He was a shepherd.
What happened?
Probably a heart attack.
I'm afraid it's not a big story for you.
Unless there's something unusual.
right?
No. I looked everywhere.
Around the caravan.
Under the caravan.
What about inside the caravan?
Worth a try..
Maybe don't touc...
What?
Fingerprints. right?
Right. Forensics.
Yes.
Everything seems to be in order.
Wait. wait..
Why would a man having a heart attack
get up and go outside?
He was probably outside when it happened.
No. no. it happened here.
Not in that chair..
And he wasn't alone.
He wasn't alone.
Come on. man.
-It was a heart attack.
-There is evidence that you are deliberately ignoring the truth.
...that it was murder.
What are you saying?
That I'm afraid of murder?
Is that so?
Oh. I wish there had been
a murder in Denbrook.
I wish there were a murder every day.
Nothing would make me happier!
Look. I know you need a story for your big newspaper career. but I'm sorry.
George Hardy wasn't murdered.
George Hardy was murdered.
The police said it was murder.
No. the police said it was a heart attack. but they're wrong.
Oh. so this isn't actually a murder. It's
just a crazy guess made by a barn animal.
Fine.
The fact that someone George knew well enough to offer him a drink visited him. and
and didn't warn anyone after he fell ill. makes the guest responsible.
...and the lack of visible wounds suggests poisoning.
The grass-green stain on his hand
points to a struggle.
The killer escaped.
George succumbed to the poison and died.
I never make guesses.
The police are completely hopeless.
just like in the bedtime stories.
That's why someone else needs to
come and solve the crime.
Who?
George Fenton.
George looked after us.
George loved us.
-We owe him everything.
-What are you saying?
Our shepherd was murdered
and we are going to solve this crime.
What's so funny?
For starters. SHEEP...
-It's talking about you.
-You all think you're smart enough to solve a crime.
Do you know what people call
people who can't think for themselves?
-SHEEP! And you. you're the
smartest sheep in the world.
Where in the world have you been?
Here and there?
Please go back to your hay and
dandelions
and take your naps. and leave the
murder investigation to the humans.
So. shall we begin?
Look for clues.
Do not disturb the evidence
and eating at the crime scene is forbidden.
Guys. I might be inside a clue. oh...
Forget about the clues.
...did anyone see anything on the night of the murder?
I did. I saw you. Sebastian.
Sebastian did it...
That's right... I did it...
I entered through a door I couldn't fit through.
...I sat on a chair I couldn't hold onto.
...and I killed my own shepherd
for no reason.
I did it by carefully dripping
poison into his glass.
Using this...
Has any of you seen any
human being?
I saw George's guest...
No. you didn't...
I did see her...
Please. Winter Lamb. now is not the time.
Bells? But the bells
rang two days ago already.
They use the bells to announce
town meetings.
This is about George.
Of course.
In nighttime stories. there is always a meeting to announce the murder.
And the killer is always among them. We need to be there.
Do you think you're brave enough to leave the house? None of you have left this meadow.
Your hooves have touched
nothing but grass.
What is so hard about leaving the house?
We're not afraid.
Mopple. what is this?
I think it's a road...
-But what is it made of?
-It's not grass. I can tell you that.
-Lilly?
-Yes?
-Are you coming?
I'm just... You go ahead.
Why are you shouting?
I'm only a few meters away from you.
But it feels so far away.
All you have to do
is cross the road.
No.
No. I can't. It's impossible.
It's not your fault.
We are who we are...
Maybe you and I can cross to the other side together.
For George?
For George.
Together.
We did it...
We got away from the house...
We can do something.
Actually. we can do anything.
Only 3 km left.
That's fine.
So. how many kilometers was that?
I must admit. I'm impressed.
You won't solve the mystery. But at least you're seeing a part of the world.
Of course I will solve the mystery.
I will solve it by tonight.
George read us dozens of stories.
They follow very simple rules.
Mopple?
-Huh? -Oh. one...
-The killer always returns to the scene of the crime.
Two... The police always think a vagrant
did it. Oh. they always act like vagrants.
Three. -An unexpected person arrives and changes everything.
Four. The victim is
the most important clue.
This is too simple. But you will see that the real world
is a bit more complicated than a book.
You'll see.
Speaking of which...
Welcome to Denbrook.
What is this?
This is a church where someone
called God lives.
Who is God?
That's a bit confusing.
God is a shepherd.
Could he be our shepherd. then?
No. Because he is also a lamb.
And at the same time. invisible.
And made of bread.
And he curses things.
Curses? Like a beaver?
-Yes. -So God is a large. invisible. bread-made lamb-beaver?
Yes. And on Sundays. they eat him.
Poor God.
I know I should go back. but I could get a story out of this small town.
It's a mystery.
I have to go.
Come on. They can't see us from here. They already see you. and no one cares.
I've said it for the 100th time. you are a sheep.
Citizens of Denbrook...
I know there are rumors that George Harvey's
death is suspicious.
But until the investigation concludes. I am not allowed to comment on the poisoning...
Wait a minute. was George murdered?
Oh. damn it.
I'm sorry. what kind of poison?
Look. George was poisoned by something called taxine. which is found in yew berries.
What are those trees?
Do they grow around here?
Right there.
Then the one who killed him was one of us.
No. no. no. no!
Please. it was almost
certainly a vagrant.
What do they have?
-Mine...
-Lydia Harbottle?
Harbottle and Bloom?
We've spoken before. I am the late
George Hardy's lawyer.
Right. and well. who are you?
I am Rebecca Hempstead.
I am George's daughter.
An unexpected person
arrives and changes everything.
This is your phone number
at the bottom of the page.
That's why I knew I had to call you.
I always figure things out.
But you're not a detective. are you?
-But you found this document lying around in a trailer.
Isn't that just noticing?
I mean... You noticed this document on your second
visit to the trailer.
That's right. That's why I had to go back there.
To properly search the crime scene.
I put up police tape...
It was thicker than I expected...
You don't care. and no one else cares either. Did you read it?
Did you ever look at it?
No. It's not my job.
It is very specifically your job.
I will read the will this afternoon. The names of the following people have been announced.
so make sure they are present.
Reverend Hillcote. Caleb
Merrow. write this down.
Reverend Hillcote. Caleb Merrow.
Beth... Pennock. Ham Gilead. Taylor
and Rebecca Hampstead.
I will be staying at the Partridge Inn.
We will do the reading there at 5:00 PM.
5:00 PM? 1700 hours.
No.
I told you. Rebecca lives in America but she's still here.
In Denbrook. the very day you told me her father
died. meaning
on the night he was murdered. she was already in this country. but you're not
...aware of it. are you?
Yes.
No. yes. of course I did.
This is your first murder case. isn't it?
What?
Do you think I killed him?
Oh. oh.
Yes. you mean my first murder case.
Now everything is on your
shoulders. Officer Derry.
See you at 5:00.
See you at 5:00. Ms. Harbottle.
Ms. Harbottle.
We must proceed to the will reading stage.
This is the Partridge Inn.
Sometimes I eat flowers here. but
I don't know what they mean.
In nighttime stories. there is always a will and the people inside it
...are always suspects.
-Ah. I need to see their faces. -Why?
-Because people lie. and you can tell by their eyes.
Absolutely.
Mopple. while we work on the window.
you look around to see if there's anything better.
I'm...
Shall we?
What do you know about your
biological mother?
In her letters. she wrote that she died giving birth to me.
She was very young. very
scared. and very poor.
And she gave me up for adoption.
Through the church. actually...
I have a question too.
I'm sorry. friend.
It's good to see you.
I realized by myself that you couldn't have come here from America today.
...right? That means you were already in this country last night.
When George was murdered.
I'm not accusing you or anything.
but this isn't right.
That's very clever. Detective.
I'm not a detective.
Just an officer...
...who always makes good deductions. -Well. I was here. but I have never been in Denbrook until today.
-The next question?
Do you have a boyfriend?
Is this the standard question every investigator asks in these situations?
Ah. it's funny you ask because we just broke up...
You don't say...
Do you see what I'm seeing?
The girl. Her face is happy.
But her eyes are afraid.
So what time exactly did you arrive here last night?
I arrived around 7 PM and... I'm sorry.
It's fine. I was supposed to meet him today
and I just... It's fine. I'm very overwhelmed.
-Take it.
-Thank you.
Enough. Thank you very much.
Window. window. window. If I were a window. where would I go?
Vegetable. Hello.
Just a little...
Also. she told me that I had a brother. a twin. sent to South Africa.
A South African twin you've never met?
Gold?
So. who are you?
I am Elliot Matthews.
I don't care... Out!
-Actually a journalist.
-You have absolutely no right... or whatever.
Get out.
And no sneaking around.
I’ll be in the presidential suite.
Sebastian...
Mr. Van Buren. this is Lydia Harbottle.
Can you hear me?
Yes. the connection is excellent. Thank
you. Mr. Van Buren.
...is Mr. Hardy's son and lives in South Africa.
so he is joining us via telephone.
Mr. Hardy sent me a copy of his will
about two months ago.
But that is not the will I am going
to read today.
He has written a new will.
I found it.
-Hush now. It is dated 3 days before his death.
-Of course.
...there is always a new will.
Mr. George Hardy's will;
I have gathered 7 people here because;
...I have unfinished business with each of you. I have wronged some of you.
...and now some of you who are among us
have also wronged me.
A fool. an evil shepherd. a spring
lamb. a winter lamb.
a victim...
and two murderers...
Two murderers?
-To me. that’s the mad shepherd.
-How am I supposed to figure that out?
-At least we know who the fool is.
-What about the other victim?
You mean the next one of us.
There is one of us next.
Two murderers...
A winter lamb.
-I leave this to you...
-Hey! Hey!
I leave this to you.
Knowing that I see you as the person you really are. is what most of you will get.
...it will be the only thing.
What does he mean by "the only thing you will get"?
Then what am I doing here?
Sit down and shut up. Ham.
I will not...
No. that is the next line in the will.
"Sit down and shut up. Ham."
It seems George
knew you quite well...
-I have clues about you.
-Shut up. -You shut up.
To my son. Peter Van Buren.
...the 300 acres leased
to Caleb Merrow...
Oh. very good.
To my daughter. Rebecca Hampstead. the 300 acres I call home.
...including my trailer.
the barn. and my sheep.
In his previous will. Mr. Hardy had left the rest of his assets to someone else.
To the Animal Protection Society.
But in the new will. this paragraph
is as follows;
I bequeath the remainder of my assets to my daughter. Rebecca Hampstead.
You didn't get too excited.
The man had nothing.
Actually. he has a broken
manure spreader.
Three bags of pre-purchased fertilizer.
which is very useful.
...and in total. about.
...a bank account with 30 million dollars.
So there is a motive.
30 million? How?
Two years ago. George Hardy
found a cure for a sheep disease.
It’s closed now.
-Closed?
-Closed.
So you are telling me that the blue bucket he was always mixing was medicine?
He sold the patent to a large agricultural
company in exchange for...
30 million?
For being closed?
If they don't have shepherds. people will make fun of these sheep. right?
Especially that big one.
George got it from the carnival.
Almost wild.
Wait. Tim.
Would you like to make a statement?
No. no. no comment.
and call me officer.
What about the clues?
Yes. there are many potential clues.
and I am tracking them all.
Look...
I need a story.
...and we need the rest of you.
Wouldn't it be nice if we showed
respect for once?
Thanks. People respect me.
If you solve this. you'll be a hero.
We can work together.
I can help.
Last night. around 9:00 PM. while my car was being towed. I saw a flashlight beam on George's property.
The coroner said George died
between 8:00 and 11:00 PM.
You took pictures of the body. right?
Because that should have been my job.
I took so many pictures.
I'll send them all to you.
What do you say?
Hero officer.
Then he said; a
fool. a victim. two murderers...
-I still say it's the maid.
-There is no maid.
That was a story. and there was no maid in the story either... No more maid.
Ah. the sheep.
Caleb is going to be our new shepherd. right. Lily?
Of course. We just have to wait
for the mystery to be solved.
I have a question.
-Why haven't you solved the mystery yet. Lily?
-You solved them with bedtime stories.
I know. but the real world
is a bit more complicated than a book.
A book?
That could be the answer...
Just go into George's trailer and...
Look...
Is that Rebecca?
What is she looking for?
What is your name?
Is this George's daughter?
She smells like him
but doesn't look like him.
I bet she was born in winter.
That's why George
didn't want her around.
Of course!
A winter lamb proves it.
Rebecca did it!
-Murderer!
-We don't know that.
That is what I am trying to say.
I have been saying it all along.
Sebastian?
Lilly? Were you saying something about George's trailer and his book?
The last book George read to us was about how to eliminate suspects.
I need to find that book and take it to the police.
If we are lucky. they will read it
and learn something.
-Oh. oh. let me. let me.
-No. Zora! -I want to be a detective. let me.
Okay. fine. I want you to find the book George started reading. the one about motives and opportunities.
I have a question.
-What chapter?
-It doesn't matter. find the book with a train on the cover.
I have a question.
What is a train?
It is a long. thin line of trailers.
-I have a question.
-Wooly Eyes. what are you doing?
Everyone stand back. I will find this book using my keen sense of smell.
Oh. here is some tobacco.
You can take it.
Come on. Wooly Eyes.
Everyone is counting on you.
No. we aren't.
Is this what you are looking for?
-No.
-Okay.
How about this?
This is it.
Wooly Eyes. you found it.
Of course I found it.
Lilly. I think. right?
After all. I am a sheep detective.
Ah!
This place is nice but a bit lonely.
I gave the book to the police to help them solve the case.
What is a carnival?
Nothing.
Get back to your flock.
Our flock...
It's music.
A carnival is music and fun.
Every day. children would come
to pet and feed me.
I loved it until I was an adult.
And when night fell. the men at the carnival would come and take me.
...into a ring.
There was a dog...
and we were expected to fight.
Fight...
...until I was covered in blood.
Then one night.
...he found me.
He paid the men and took me away.
That is what a carnival is.
But how did you end up in such a terrible place. why weren't you with your flock?
I thought the great sheep detective Lily would have solved that.
-So you were born in winter.
-Sooner or later...
...a winter lamb wants to leave.
There he is!
Yes!
I hope you're hungry.
Are we?
Every time something interesting happens with this case...
...they are here.
You lost him.
You lost him and you did nothing.
We can't say "nothing" exactly.
Who killed George?
5 people are mentioned in the will...
Whoever killed George. there were 3 elements...
Means. motive. opportunity.
He read the book.
Let's take them one by one. shall we?
Means.
Yew berry poison.
There are yew trees around the church.
...everyone had the means.
Motive. Why would they kill George?
Rebecca has a motive. but
the others might have one too.
What are they hiding?
Opportunity. Does any of these people have an alibi?
Means. Motive. Opportunity.
The moment you find these three together. you catch the Denbrook Killer.
That is actually really good.
Yes. it came to me in the night.
Okay. let's get started.
Ham... So which one of you is in George's will?
Probably the killer.
The man was a vegetarian.
I can forgive that in a woman.
but a man... disgusting.
George's letter to Rebecca.
Why did you take it?
Maybe the Postal Service made a mistake for the first time in history.
The day before George died. you told me you could kill him.
I am a victim. not a killer. And that is all I have to say. I know my rights.
Caleb. the morning you found George. you said you would bring him papers.
Yes. he just canceled my lease.
I was bringing him an offer to reconsider.
It doesn't make much sense.
Wait...
Did George cancel your lease?
Why?
Have you heard the will?
It seems I am the bad shepherd.
George never set foot in your church
and suddenly walked in the day before he died.
...and made a large donation.
Why?
Why am I always the one left behind?
George came to me and said the church
was adopting out the children.
But as soon as he got on his feet
he started looking for them.
The church wouldn't tell him where they were.
Apparently. it's a strict policy.
And he asked what I had to do
to get that information.
And if the church found out about this.
I could be cast out of the flock.
He says I would be fired.
But this money wasn't for me.
It was needed for the church's construction.
George came to me when he was in need.
And I took advantage of it.
The bad shepherd isn't Caleb.
It's me.
Rebecca...
-Ms. Anstead.
Are you pleased with the
Denbrook Culture Festival?
Yes.
Very much so.
Easy. easy questions.
Where were you between 8 and 11
on the night of the murder?
At the hotel. near the airport. I checked in
and then I watched television. I couldn't sleep.
Jet lag. you know.
What were you watching?
The 24-hour news channel.
24-hour... news... channel...
-Good day. Ms. Hampstead.
-You too.
Goodbye.
Or should I say Ms. Cramps?
Chastity Cramps
is your real name. isn't it?
So. can you think of any reason
why someone would change their name
to Chastity Cramps?
I did a background check
and it turns out.
you were with a known felon.
Numerous counts of forgery.
You even had a joint bank
account together.
Okay. I don't know anyone who doesn't regret a relationship.
and I didn't even know. That was three years ago.
It wasn't a recent breakup. then?
Not a real name.
-A bit of a model.
-A pattern of some sort is emerging.
So. were you near the yew tree
on church grounds?
No. absolutely not.
What about George's farm?
Were you there?
Never.
Hey. look at the leaves.
Ah. that's it. Why is
Rebecca lying?
What is a vegetarian?
How does everything fit?
Think. you stupid sheep. Think!
Stop overthinking it. Lily.
It's clear your daughter did it.
She's right.
No. she isn't.
You don't know the girl. She's a good person.
She smells just like George.
and George used to love me.
Did he?
-No one loves a winter lamb.
-One winter lamb clings to another.
-That's how they are.
-Stop.
What did you say?
I said George loved me.
No. Before that. you said Rebecca
smelled just like George.
Someone said that before.
The wrong person.
You...
Me?
What... what do you mean. me?
Cloud did...
No. but he's hiding a secret.
Aren't you. Cloud?
Last night you said Rebecca smelled just like George. but she was very far away.
If Rebecca hadn't been here before. you wouldn't know what she smelled like.
But it's so beautiful.
What is so beautiful?
The thing that has no end.
It's so beautiful that it never ends.
I looked at it for hours.
walked around it. walked around it.
Cloud! Cloud!
Where did you find this?
Rebecca was here that night.
The night George was killed.
I woke up and felt hungry. so I walked toward the meadow and she was there.
She saw me and said. "Are you cute?" Because I am. I mean. I am cute.
And she stroked my wool and this thing fell.
And I...
decided it was mine.
So. we are going through some things right now.
Sheep don't have anything.
I know. but this has no end.
So the case is solved.
Rebecca did it.
A bit of shiny metal
doesn't solve anything.
Of course it does. It's evidence.
Evidence?
Evidence of what?
She told the police she never came here. But she was here last night.
And the night George was killed.
She's a liar. She's a fake.
And she's a winter...
-She's a what?
Tell me.
You've hated her from the start. All of you.
Because she was born in winter.
The worst crime imaginable.
Haven't you heard?
No one wants you.
You don't deserve anything.
A winter lamb hears this over and over until they start to believe it themselves.
Sebastian..
-She didn't do it.
-But how do you know?
Because I looked into her eyes.
Because it's so obvious.
But not to you.
No.
Not to a flock of sheep.
We are your flock of sheep.
I told you.
I don't have a flock.
I never did.
Lilly.
What should we do about
the thing that has no end?
Of course...
Driver.
What?
Hey!
Come on. Hey!
Come here!
Thanks for this.
Thank you all.
I think I found something that belongs to you.
It matches the others.
I found it on George's land.
You know. the place you've
never been before.
I have permission to search your room.
-What are you looking for?
-I don't know.
You weren't near the yew tree. huh?
I knew it. I wasn't. I wouldn't be.
Tim. Tim. you have to believe me.
Officer Darry...
Darry. I swear to you
I didn't kill my father.
Rebecca Hampstead. you are under arrest for the murder of George Hardy.
Suspect. Chastity Cramps
statement... aka...
Rebecca Hampstead.
Ms. Cramps. do you confirm that you waive your right to retain counsel?
Yes. I don't care.
I'm ready to tell everything.
Okay. Then let's start with this:
Were you on the George
Hardy estate the night of the murder?
Yes.
All those pretty smiles
and "Oh. you're so smart. detective"
...it was all a game. wasn't it?
The truth is. you haven't told a single true thing since you arrived.
The letters... That part was true.
He wrote that he had been looking for me for over 20 years and...
..he was starting to set things right.
-He even sent a copy of his will.
- The will where you'd get 30 million.
-...or the one where you'd get a group of sheep?
-No. nothing to do with money.
He said he wanted to meet me.
And then you go to his farm the night of the murder...
So what happened then?
We talked.
About what?
Sheep. We talked about sheep and their names. He said;
...every sheep should have a name. And he chose each one by looking into their eyes.
And he wanted me to have them one day.
He chose me.
But look. I'm not stupid.
I was alone with him the night he was killed. And the new will and all that money...
And with everything that happened in my past. my only option was to lie.
You have to believe me.
I lied. so believe me.
Right?
You will be taken to the district court in the morning and formally charged with the intentional murder of George Hardy.
Is that so. huh?
Money. the thing people wouldn't do.
It seems George
Hardy picked the wrong lamb.
Oh. speaking of which. he agreed to sell the Van Buren sheep and his land to Caleb.
He'll handle the paperwork for that tomorrow at noon.
Good.
I misjudged you. officer.
So it seems...
It turns out you weren't the stupid one after all.
Lilly?
What are you doing here?
Are you okay?
Yes. I'm more than okay.
I'm happy. They arrested Rebecca.
Caleb will be our new shepherd tomorrow.
That's wonderful.
Of course she denies it all. but I'm right and Sebastian is wrong.
Rebecca did it. didn't she?
Of course she did.
Thank you.
Because you said she did it.
-What? -You always know how stories will end before they're over.
-I trust you.
-But they were just stories.
This is a real person.
Yes.
-I...
-Lily. look.
Caleb's land is just
on the other side of the fence.
Why don't we go over there
and meet our new flock?
But we've never been to
Caleb's land before.
We've never used the
crossroads before either.
Come on.
It's like we're inside a cloud.
Do you think we're in the wrong place?
I don't think so.
Hello?
Hello...
My name is Lily...
And this is Mapple.
We're from the other side of the meadow.
Caleb is going to be our shepherd. too.
What?
I don't know.
Maybe we shouldn't have
come here after all.
We should leave.
Okay.
Which way do we go back?
That way. I think.
Look. there's a light.
This must be Caleb's barn.
We'll be safe here.
I don't think this is a
barn at all.
-Maybe...
-Wait...
What is this?
Lily. don't. We have to go.
Why is this sheep like this?
What are they doing to them?
Caleb? Oh.
Hello. dogs.
What's wrong with this one?
We aren't supposed to be here.
Faster. Lily!
I can't...
Sebastian...
Oh. thank God you came.
I thought we were going to die...
Sebastian?
Sebastian... Get up...
Lily...
I can't get up...
He's dying.
What?
A sheep doesn't die.
We turn into clouds.
Turn into a cloud. Sebastian.
Turn into a cloud.
I wish I could...
You shouldn't have come back.
Why did you come back?
I had to...
You are my flock...
I see him...
I see George...
It's Caleb...
We have to go...
Now. Lily...
Wake up...
Everyone wake up!
WAKE UPPPPP...
Follow me...
Don't stop. we have to go...
Now...
Leave?
What are you talking about?
Sebastian is dead.
You said we turn into clouds.
I was wrong.
We're dying...
I saw Sebastian die.
And if we don't leave here tonight.
we're all going to die.
-Caleb turned the sheep into food. -Stop it!
Stop saying these horrible things!
I'm forgetting this incident right now.
-No. you can't.
-Why?
Why would I want to remember
something so horrible?
Because it's the truth.
If I don't remember it. it won't be true.
-One...
-Stop.
-Two...
-Ronnie. Betty. please.
-Three.
Hello. Lily.
I have a question.
What are we doing here?
I don't like this. Let's go back
to the meadow. -Let's go back to the meadow...
No.
Don't. Please don't...
Sebastian was right about us...
We are fools...
This wasn't the first night
I saw a sheep die...
Was it?
No...
How many times have I forgotten?
More than I can count...
Have you carried this all by yourself?
All this time?
Yes. I remember every bad thing.
But I remember the good things. too.
I remember my mother's face.
I remember my old friends and
how much they loved me.
And you will remember Sebastian. too.
It hurts.
Remembering is painful.
But if you forget. you can't save the others.
and Sebastian will have died for nothing.
Caleb will come for you tomorrow. and
you will follow your new shepherd...
...like all the other stupid. scared sheep.
And we will all die.
I'm sorry.
I'm really sorry...
But it's our memory that
keeps our loved ones alive.
I'm sorry. Sebastian...
I'm not as strong as you.
One...
Two...
I lost someone once...
I know it hurts...
But with time. everything is left behind.
Only the beautiful things remain.
Are you really here?
Of course I'm here...
Because you haven't forgotten me.
See how that works?
Yes. but it doesn't matter anymore. Caleb...
Caleb won't be able to do anything to my flock
because you're going to save them...
But how?
You already know how.
If you find out who really did this. Lily.
Rebecca will take the flock.
and you'll all be safe...
But what if I don't know who
really did it?
Honestly. I've read dozens of these stories.
They follow very simple rules.
But the rules didn't help.
The police don't think it was a drifter.
Anyone could have returned to the crime scene.
...Rebecca was the unexpected one
and... -And...?
The victim is the most important clue.
That's my girl...
-Rebecca didn't do it. -Lily. slow down.
-I know who did it. if I can prove it.
-Prove what? -It wasn't a grass stain.
-Wait. wait. stop.
Yes. Oh. but I'm too big.
I can't fit...
I can fit. Lily...
And I don't forget...
Put your whole leg inside...
Now put your other leg into this.
Okay. time to go...
What a strange town.
Do you think this will work?
I don't know.
All we can do is wait.
What did George tell you the
morning before he died?
I saw him whisper something in your ear.
He said the winter lamb is the
best kind of lamb.
-Sir? -Do you ever feel like you've
forgotten something?
Is it what Lily told us last night
that we chose to forget?
...because we were. you know.
scared. right?
I'm not scared. I'm definitely not
scared. but yeah. that's it.
What should we do. brother?
I have no idea. but we can't do nothing.
so we have to do something.
That's genius.
Well. come on then. Are we lame.
or are we sheep?
Who did this?
-The lamb that came through the window...
-The lamb that came through the window?
...and worse...
It can't be worse than the window lamb.
I'm sure the lamb was taking
orders from another sheep.
Sure...
What does that mean?
Nothing...
It didn't work...
Officer Derry.
Don't...
Stop...
He didn't do it.
I know who did it.
I know who killed
George Hardy.
Mrs. Harbuckle.
-No. no. no.
-It turns out I was a fool.
But maybe not anymore.
Rebecca Hampstead was the prime suspect
from the moment she arrived in Denbrook.
She had the strongest motive...
And she lied.
She was at George's farm on the night of the murder.
Just as the real killer hoped.
A killer we never thought of.
Because they weren't even a suspect.
The only person named in George's will
who had an alibi.
A perfect alibi.
An alibi that wasn't even in the country.
-You mean...
-Yes.
Peter Van Buren. Rebecca. you said George
sent you a copy.
But I'm sure he sent one to
his brother as well.
The brother who did some research
and saw George's fortune. and decided to kill.
...even if he had to.
to get the 30 million...
But he had one major problem.
-Motive!! -I wanted to say it.
-You made it look like I was the killer.
MOTIVE! If a murder victim leaves you
a fortune in their will. then you are
the prime suspect.
But if he leaves it to his sister.
and she becomes an accomplice...
The money automatically goes to the next of kin.
-Please don't. I'm having a moment here.
I'm sorry.
Next of kin.
The only question left is
where is he hiding?
Who am I looking for?
Someone hiding in plain sight.
Someone who changed their name.
For example. Chastity Cramps
became Rebecca Hampstead.
And Peter Van Buren... And
Peter Van Buren... Became Elliot Matthews.
It never crossed my mind.
Tim. you're embarrassing yourself.
I don't live in South Africa. I live in
this country and I work for a newspaper.
I know.
I assume you've been living in this
country for a while as "Elliot Matthews."
Mimicking the accent.
George told you Rebecca was
coming to visit. didn't he?
It was the perfect opportunity to frame her.
All you needed was
a reason to come to Denbrook.
Like a cultural festival.
Your plan was simple.
First. make a big scene by leaving Denbrook.
Then a convenient car
...accident brought you back.
Later that night.
after Rebecca had left.
you did what you came to do.
You poisoned your father...
and planted a new will.
But your father was stronger
than you expected.
There was a struggle.
But in the end. you won.
All that remained was to ensure your
sister took the blame.
You were clever.
You knew she would be evicted the day
Ms. Harbottle read the will.
Mr. Van Buren. this is Lydia Harbour.
can you hear me?
Yes. the connection is very clear. Thank you.
As for the badgers. it was very easy
to scatter them in Rebecca's room.
Small town inn. easy to get into.
It was almost perfect. Elliot. but you left
a clue I hadn't understood until now.
George's hands.
One was blue. one was green.
The blue made sense. It was what made
him rich... But the green?
Why green?
And then some friends. some very
good detective friends.
made me think.
Blue and yellow. A mix of blue and
yellow makes green.
Just like the green stain I saw
on the blue on George's hand.
Just like the stain on the blue pillowcase
stolen from the inn where you slept the night you killed George.
George's hands were stained blue from the
medicine that night. but then.
he grabbed someone's hair. someone who
used cheap yellow hair dye.
Someone whose hair dye ran in the rain
and turned George's hand green...
Someone who was blonde just before coming to
Denbrook because they didn't want anyone.
for even a second. to think they resembled
their sister.
Or their father...
Isn't that right. Peter?
Yes...
No. that's crazy and completely unprovable.
So. would it be a problem if I took this?
Not at all.
I must admit. I'm not a natural blonde.
I suppose I should also admit to brushing
my teeth and waxing my chest.
I bet you're a vegetarian.
So. you had to accuse me of murder
just because I dye my hair?
You're not taking me to court.
I'm taking you.
You misunderstood.
This isn't hair dye.
This is DNA...
If you're George Hardy's son.
then you're Peter Van Buren.
And you're the real killer...
I've got you.
Bravo. Darry.
-You came.
-Yes...
What happened?
Because there is a good reason
to butt heads.
Turkish translation and synchronization:
ufukbaba
Justice?
Just us...
I have millions... Do you hear?
My millions...
Look... On behalf of the entire Denbrook Police
Department. we offer our sincere apologies.
Is there anyone else but you?
No.
I want to apologize.
Thank you.
Ah.
Look.
Window lamb?
Window lamb.
I think you'll be staying around
here for a while.
You know. I just got out of prison. so I
might need some time.
I hope you stay.
Maybe.
It's on us.
Oh. wait.
I'm sorry.
I saw this.
It was in the mail bag and... I mean. I didn't
know you were his daughter and I...
I bought him that rose-scented paper. I mean...
You can guess.
Were you in love with him?
He tried.
But George loved your mother.
There was no room in his heart
for anyone else.
I used to wonder what your mother
looked like...
But there's no need for that now.
I wish I had asked him more about
my mother.
I don't even know her name.
Lilly...
Her name was Lilly.
Of course. the fake will is not valid.
But you will still get his
sheep and his land.
So that's nice.
I apologize for bothering you.
Look. Ham and I are trying to run
this new business.
We have a good bank behind us. Yes. And basically.
we want to buy your farm and the sheep.
-Two killers.
-Excuse me?
My father had found out that you were
slaughtering sheep on his land.
You two are killers.
-So. two businessmen.
-And ones who offer a good price.
Do you know their names?
-Whose?
-He told me their names.
There's Lilly.
And Mapple.
And the big fluffy one is Cloud. He says she's
a total diva. And the woolly one
he named Woolly Eyes. which I thought
was obvious. but he said.
"Hey. they never complained."
-Look. Ms. Hampson.
-Hardy.
Rebecca Hardy.
I'm changing it.
I don't do name changes.
I'm sorry. Ms. Hardy. but good luck.
Wait...
What if I want more sheep?
Can I get a good bank behind me?
Lily. how did you manage to solve it?
Of course she solved it.
She's the smartest sheep in the world.
Oh. okay...
I used to think I was. but I'm not.
I made mistakes... When the winter lamb said
it saw George's ghost.
I should have listened. but instead I...
I have thousands of questions.
Where is your face?
You're broken.
I'm broken too.
It is a common belief that sheep are by far the
dumbest of all farm animals.
But that is actually not true.
Sheep are not only intelligent.
they are also inspiring.
This place is beautiful. but a bit lonely.
George. that's your name.
Every sheep should have a name.
George...
My name is George.
Hello. George!
We're like people.
Above all. they value belonging.
They let themselves belong to us.
And that's how we realize we belong to them.
...
SUBTITLE GENERATED BY SUBTEKS.ME
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm